elon musk will have to testify in the sec's twitter probe after all
senior reporterupdated ·1 min readdespite elon musk's  to avoid further testifying for the  investigation his luck appears to have run out.  reported that in a san francisco hearing on thursday a federal judge shot down musk's attorney's challenge on whether the securities and exchange commission (sec) officials had the power to issue subpoenas thus ruling that the exec must therefore comply with the regulator and appear for testimony. us magistrate judge laurel beeler was quoted saying "you've got one more four-hour deposition one more day of depositions to survive and it's over." failing that the judge would have to issue an order.the sec's ongoing probe dives into musk’s late disclosure of his stake in twitter — a publicly-traded company back then — which went against the requirements of us securities law. this 10-day delay on the paperwork along with some potentially misleading information within may have earned the exec as much as  according to . former twitter shareholders also filed a  against musk over his controversial  of the social media platform which has since been renamed x.while it's unlikely that musk can skip future testimonies for this case he would be better off heeding beeler's advice regardless. "it seems unlikely there’s going to be any more hassle" the judge added should the world's richest man "work it out" with the sec. whether that would help his case is a whole different matter of course.
updated ·1 min read
despite elon musk's  to avoid further testifying for the  investigation his luck appears to have run out.  reported that in a san francisco hearing on thursday a federal judge shot down musk's attorney's challenge on whether the securities and exchange commission (sec) officials had the power to issue subpoenas thus ruling that the exec must therefore comply with the regulator and appear for testimony. us magistrate judge laurel beeler was quoted saying "you've got one more four-hour deposition one more day of depositions to survive and it's over." failing that the judge would have to issue an order.the sec's ongoing probe dives into musk’s late disclosure of his stake in twitter — a publicly-traded company back then — which went against the requirements of us securities law. this 10-day delay on the paperwork along with some potentially misleading information within may have earned the exec as much as  according to . former twitter shareholders also filed a  against musk over his controversial  of the social media platform which has since been renamed x.while it's unlikely that musk can skip future testimonies for this case he would be better off heeding beeler's advice regardless. "it seems unlikely there’s going to be any more hassle" the judge added should the world's richest man "work it out" with the sec. whether that would help his case is a whole different matter of course.
the sec's ongoing probe dives into musk’s late disclosure of his stake in twitter — a publicly-traded company back then — which went against the requirements of us securities law. this 10-day delay on the paperwork along with some potentially misleading information within may have earned the exec as much as  according to . former twitter shareholders also filed a  against musk over his controversial  of the social media platform which has since been renamed x.
while it's unlikely that musk can skip future testimonies for this case he would be better off heeding beeler's advice regardless. "it seems unlikely there’s going to be any more hassle" the judge added should the world's richest man "work it out" with the sec. whether that would help his case is a whole different matter of course.