elon musk gets the john oliver treatment
the future is hereunfortunately since it's elon musk it's impossible to cover everything in only 30 minutes.by.it’s been a long year. ? that was only six months ago even though it feels like it had to have been at least two years ago considering all that has happened since then. elon musk especially has been in the news constantly and rarely for anything positive. yes he finally managed to  which is great news for joe rogan fans and  but he also made it abundantly clear over the last year that even if you like teslas you shouldn’t be giving him your money.watchmr. tweet fumbles super bowl tweet
in fact musk has been in the news so frequently that it can be incredibly hard to keep up especially when it comes to all the racist anti-semitic transphobic and generally bigoted views he’s been pushing on twitter a site that vox reports is  back in 2022. and for some reason  after they decided they didn’t want their ads to appear next to bigoted posts didn’t fix the problem. his behavior on twitter is more than enough of a reason to want nothing to do with musk but as john oliver explained on the most recent episode of hbo’s last week tonight the problems with musk go a lot deeper than that. yes oliver dedicated more than 30 minutes of that episode to exactly how much musk sucks and how dangerous it is to let a man who sucks that much have so much power and influence. unfortunately since it’s musk we’re talking about 30 minutes isn’t even close to enough time to cover every single reason musk sucks. unless we missed it some important things like  and  didn’t make it in. trust us though the episode still covers enough to make it worth 30 minutes of your time (or 15 minutes if you speed it up). this article .
unfortunately since it's elon musk it's impossible to cover everything in only 30 minutes.
by.it’s been a long year. ? that was only six months ago even though it feels like it had to have been at least two years ago considering all that has happened since then. elon musk especially has been in the news constantly and rarely for anything positive. yes he finally managed to  which is great news for joe rogan fans and  but he also made it abundantly clear over the last year that even if you like teslas you shouldn’t be giving him your money.watchmr. tweet fumbles super bowl tweet
it’s been a long year. ? that was only six months ago even though it feels like it had to have been at least two years ago considering all that has happened since then. elon musk especially has been in the news constantly and rarely for anything positive. yes he finally managed to  which is great news for joe rogan fans and  but he also made it abundantly clear over the last year that even if you like teslas you shouldn’t be giving him your money.watchmr. tweet fumbles super bowl tweet
watchmr. tweet fumbles super bowl tweet
mr. tweet fumbles super bowl tweet
share
subtitles
yes oliver dedicated more than 30 minutes of that episode to exactly how much musk sucks and how dangerous it is to let a man who sucks that much have so much power and influence. unfortunately since it’s musk we’re talking about 30 minutes isn’t even close to enough time to cover every single reason musk sucks. unless we missed it some important things like  and  didn’t make it in. trust us though the episode still covers enough to make it worth 30 minutes of your time (or 15 minutes if you speed it up).
this article .