betathis is a beta experience. you may opt-out by clicking herebreaking3 hours ago4 hours ago4 hours ago5 hours ago5 hours ago5 hours ago5 hours ago5 hours ago5 hours ago6 hours ago6 hours ago7 hours ago7 hours ago7 hours ago7 hours ago7 hours ago8 hours ago8 hours ago9 hours ago9 hours ago9 hours agogautam adani’s fortune gains $5 billion after india’s top court refuses separate probe into hindenburg’s allegationsforbes staffcovering breaking news and tech policy stories at forbes.click to save this article.you'll be asked to to your forbes account.got itupdated jan 3 2024 0542am esttopline
india’s supreme court rejected a petition seeking an independent probe into allegations against billionaire gautam adani’s conglomerate raised by new york-based activist firm hindenburg leaving the matter for the country’s securities regulator and government and triggering a surge in the stock price for the company’s listed firms.
key facts
a bench led by chief justice of india dy chandrachud said the supreme court had limited powers on regulatory matters about the markets and the judicial review could only examine if any fundamental rights have been violated.
the bench said petitioners failed to present any valid reason for the court to interject into the investigation already being conducted by the securities and exchange board of india (sebi) although it directed the regulator to complete its probe within three months.
the court said hindenburg’s report which  the adani group of engaging in “brazen stock manipulation” could not serve as a basis for a separate probe and “cannot be taken as credible evidence or a proof of regulatory failure by sebi.”
the court however said the hindenburg report and other press reports could act as inputs for the market regulator.
the ruling also rejected concerns raised by the petitioner over potential conflicts of interest involved in the sebi probe over links between some of the agency’s officials with the adani family.
crucial quote
adani group founder and chair gautam adani hailed the court’s verdict and once again invoked  to defend his company. he posted on x “the hon'ble supreme court's judgement shows that truth has prevailed…i am grateful to those who stood by us…our humble contribution to india's growth story will continue.”
news peg
shares of adani enterprises the conglomerate’s flagship firm rose 5% in response to the ruling with the price eventually settling at $36.45 (₹3035) up 3.5%. shares of other adani group-listed entities also surged up to 6% after the ruling.
forbes valuation
wednesday’s stock market surge has increased adani’s fortune by $5 billion according to forbes’ real-time tracker. according to  the billionaire’s current net worth is $77.5 billion making him the  in the world. this is still well short of adani’s $126 billion net worth last january before the publication of the hindenburg report.
key background
last january new york-based hindenburg research disclosed a short position against the adani group’s listed firms and  accusing the conglomerate of engaging in “brazen stock manipulation and accounting fraud scheme over the course of decades.” the company and its billionaire founder strongly denied all allegations and claimed the report was a foreign attack on india and its economy. the controversy also spilled into the political sphere in india due to adani’s decades-long close ties with indian prime minister narendra modi—who was accused of protecting the billionaire by opposition politicians.
further reading
 (live law)
 (forbes)
follow me on . send me a secure .
this is a beta experience. you may opt-out by clicking here
breaking3 hours ago4 hours ago4 hours ago5 hours ago5 hours ago5 hours ago5 hours ago5 hours ago5 hours ago6 hours ago6 hours ago7 hours ago7 hours ago7 hours ago7 hours ago7 hours ago8 hours ago8 hours ago9 hours ago9 hours ago9 hours ago
3 hours ago4 hours ago4 hours ago5 hours ago5 hours ago5 hours ago5 hours ago5 hours ago5 hours ago6 hours ago6 hours ago7 hours ago7 hours ago7 hours ago7 hours ago7 hours ago8 hours ago8 hours ago9 hours ago9 hours ago9 hours ago
4 hours ago
5 hours ago
6 hours ago
7 hours ago
8 hours ago
9 hours ago
gautam adani’s fortune gains $5 billion after india’s top court refuses separate probe into hindenburg’s allegationsforbes staffcovering breaking news and tech policy stories at forbes.click to save this article.you'll be asked to to your forbes account.got itupdated jan 3 2024 0542am esttopline
forbes staffcovering breaking news and tech policy stories at forbes.click to save this article.you'll be asked to to your forbes account.got it
covering breaking news and tech policy stories at forbes.
click to save this article.you'll be asked to to your forbes account.got it
you'll be asked to to your forbes account.
got it
updated jan 3 2024 0542am esttopline
topline