the hollywood strikes stopped ai from taking your job. but for how long?  wired
revolt against the machines began at swingers. and at bob’s big boy where for weeks drew carey . members of the writers guild of america or wga met at both los angeles-area diners frequently during  which hinged on protecting hollywood’s scribes from being overrun by the march of .members of the wga were just a small part of the resistance. there were others. the screen actors guild—american federation of television and radio artists or sag-aftra soon joined them on the picket lines together forming a formidable uprising against the perceived threat of ai.what each union was seeking was different.  to make sure ai couldn’t be trained on their work or manipulate it without their say-so;  guardrails on how the technology could be used to recreate their performances. both parties ended up setting a tone for how labor movements in the future could push back against encroaching automation.“it is interesting that the hollywood strikes became the highest-profile example of workers resisting ai in 2023” says  author of this year’s  a book about .at the same time he adds the unions’ confrontations with studios came at a time when the boom in ai technology was causing a lot of folks to be critical of silicon valley and new tools primed to take their jobs. originally the wga’s ai stipulations  they’d be hotly contested demands—then they became a central issue. “workers and unions have been fighting automation and certain uses of ai in the workplace for years of course but the writers guild were among the first to do so after the rise of  and ” merchant says. ultimately it was the first big face-off between humans and ai he adds and “the humans won.”their timing couldn’t have been better. throughout 2023 many trades and professions from painters to coders and beyond found themselves vulnerable to being replaced by machine learning. ibm’s ceo  that some 7800 jobs at the company could be done by bots in the next five years. a goldman sachs report from late march  nearly 300000 jobs globally could be affected by automation.   (gulp) —everyone it seemed spent at least part of 2023 wondering if robots were coming for their jobs.that in turn led to increased interest in what protections organized labor could provide workers even as some unions like the united auto workers and teamsters seemed to fall behind on addressing ai’s potential to encroach on jobs. in  for harvard business review mit engineering professor yossi sheffi argued short-sightedness on these issues affects both workers and employers since disengaged staffers could become part of a workforce that’s even less prepared if and when automation comes to their industry.sheffi wrote the piece in september when both sag and wga were deep into their strikes. at the time he noted that other industries should “take to heart” what was happening in hollywood. “resolving these issues [between the actors and writers and the studios] will take time but at least in this case the parties have started the process before ai has become an industry mainstay” he wrote. “but other unions don’t seem to be facing up to the ways technological advances will change jobs.”as the advance of ai marched on throughout 2023 it became clear that unions were only part of the resistance. authors worried that large language models had been trained using their books  against openai meta microsoft and others. so did visual artists against stable diffusion midjourney deviantart and more. none of those suits has reached any kind of conclusion and some argue  claims aren’t the way to stop the bots from absorbing creative work but the suits did turn the courts into yet another battlefield in addition to picket lines on which humans pushed back against ai incursion.by the end of 2023 governments entered the fray. in early november us president joe biden  attempting among other things to curtail ai’s impact on human work and provide “ for workers facing labor disruptions including from ai.” unions  praised the move which came as world leaders were heading to the uk for the ai safety summit where as my colleague  they sought to contain the threats of machine learning while also harnessing its power.that has always been the tricky part. from weavers to writers lots of people use machines to improve their work. automation helps! as ai boosters will tell you the technology can cultivate new forms of creativity. people can  alongside ai create new styles of visual art build . some hollywood writers use the tools for . fear comes in when brainstorming evolves into a studio head asking chatgpt to write a new movie about a cat and a cop who are best friends. no scribes needed.currently chatbots can’t whip up fully formed scripts or novels or caravaggios but the tech is evolving so quickly it feels all but imminent. when sam altman was  from openai in november there was  that the company was developing its tech too quickly that its for-profit ambitions had overwhelmed its altruistic intentions. altman is now back at the head of his company but whether or not openai is still evolving too quickly remains to be seen. but microsoft does now have a nonvoting board seat.funny thing about that microsoft actually  to openai staffers during that brief period when altman was voted off the island. so did . openai employees all but told salesforce ceo marc benioff to  but the sentiment stood as a reminder that while ai is poised to take many jobs it also creates jobs in ai. the “learn to code” crowd has all new ammo. even biden’s executive order was clear about the fact that the us government wanted to attract the best and brightest in the field.but that’s job creation not job displacement. new technologies create jobs all the time but with ai some of those jobs . what’s more ai can also ask you to train it to do your job before picking up your tools. going forward the likelihood that ai will displace many entry-level jobs while creating a few highly skilled gigs seems high. the biggest questions in ai right now nearly all revolve around what these machines are learning from people whether it’s human skill or human bias.journalism requires a modicum of skill and an ability to tamp down bias—and ai has proven . going into 2023 i thought perhaps i would be old and retired before ai came for my gig. then keanu reeves (of all people)  and that ai could replace me before my next birthday. “the people who are paying you for your art would rather not pay you” he said. “they’re actively seeking a way around you because artists are tricky. humans are messy.”six months after reeves said that sag the union of which he is a member went on strike to make sure studios couldn’t find a way around him. (as if.) when the strike ended as with the wga resolution  could studios be trusted to self-regulate? would actors be able to loan out ai doubles of themselves for jobs that would have gone to human performers? many of those questions won’t be answered for a long time. perhaps the answers won’t come soon enough.you might also like … is a senior editor at wired covering pop culture. she also serves as the publication's deputy bureau chief in new york. prior to joining wired she was a reporter for the associated press. watercutter was also a senior editor of longshot magazine and a contributor to pop-up magazine.... senior editortopicsthe creator economy is fragmented and chaotic. talent manager ursus magana can (almost) make sense of it with a frenetic formula for gaming the algorithms.brendan i. koernerspotify is the world’s biggest music streamer but rarely turns a profit and just cut 17 percent of its workforce. its business model looks increasingly precarious.amanda hooverjoe weisberg—the geopolitically entangled heavily therapized creator of the americans and the patient—is the trickiest character he’s written (so far).laura kipnisthe director manages to game the system and keep his soul while doing pretty much whatever he wants. right now that means trying to make his rebel moon space opera into a netflix mega-franchise.hemal jhaveriit was only about halfway done but the script david lynch wrote for the sequel to his 1984 adaptation of frank herbert's novel dune was still better than dune messiah.max evryfeeling lethargic and unmotivated after a holiday break from the office? you’re not alone. these tips can help.reece rogersfrom the wheel of time to reacher these are our picks for what you should be watching on the streamer.matt kamenwith offerings like rap sh!t and true detective night country max is a streaming paradise of “it’s not tv” television.jennifer m. wood
that in turn led to increased interest in what protections organized labor could provide workers even as some unions like the united auto workers and teamsters seemed to fall behind on addressing ai’s potential to encroach on jobs. in  for harvard business review mit engineering professor yossi sheffi argued short-sightedness on these issues affects both workers and employers since disengaged staffers could become part of a workforce that’s even less prepared if and when automation comes to their industry.sheffi wrote the piece in september when both sag and wga were deep into their strikes. at the time he noted that other industries should “take to heart” what was happening in hollywood. “resolving these issues [between the actors and writers and the studios] will take time but at least in this case the parties have started the process before ai has become an industry mainstay” he wrote. “but other unions don’t seem to be facing up to the ways technological advances will change jobs.”as the advance of ai marched on throughout 2023 it became clear that unions were only part of the resistance. authors worried that large language models had been trained using their books  against openai meta microsoft and others. so did visual artists against stable diffusion midjourney deviantart and more. none of those suits has reached any kind of conclusion and some argue  claims aren’t the way to stop the bots from absorbing creative work but the suits did turn the courts into yet another battlefield in addition to picket lines on which humans pushed back against ai incursion.by the end of 2023 governments entered the fray. in early november us president joe biden  attempting among other things to curtail ai’s impact on human work and provide “ for workers facing labor disruptions including from ai.” unions  praised the move which came as world leaders were heading to the uk for the ai safety summit where as my colleague  they sought to contain the threats of machine learning while also harnessing its power.that has always been the tricky part. from weavers to writers lots of people use machines to improve their work. automation helps! as ai boosters will tell you the technology can cultivate new forms of creativity. people can  alongside ai create new styles of visual art build . some hollywood writers use the tools for . fear comes in when brainstorming evolves into a studio head asking chatgpt to write a new movie about a cat and a cop who are best friends. no scribes needed.
currently chatbots can’t whip up fully formed scripts or novels or caravaggios but the tech is evolving so quickly it feels all but imminent. when sam altman was  from openai in november there was  that the company was developing its tech too quickly that its for-profit ambitions had overwhelmed its altruistic intentions. altman is now back at the head of his company but whether or not openai is still evolving too quickly remains to be seen. but microsoft does now have a nonvoting board seat.funny thing about that microsoft actually  to openai staffers during that brief period when altman was voted off the island. so did . openai employees all but told salesforce ceo marc benioff to  but the sentiment stood as a reminder that while ai is poised to take many jobs it also creates jobs in ai. the “learn to code” crowd has all new ammo. even biden’s executive order was clear about the fact that the us government wanted to attract the best and brightest in the field.but that’s job creation not job displacement. new technologies create jobs all the time but with ai some of those jobs . what’s more ai can also ask you to train it to do your job before picking up your tools. going forward the likelihood that ai will displace many entry-level jobs while creating a few highly skilled gigs seems high. the biggest questions in ai right now nearly all revolve around what these machines are learning from people whether it’s human skill or human bias.journalism requires a modicum of skill and an ability to tamp down bias—and ai has proven . going into 2023 i thought perhaps i would be old and retired before ai came for my gig. then keanu reeves (of all people)  and that ai could replace me before my next birthday. “the people who are paying you for your art would rather not pay you” he said. “they’re actively seeking a way around you because artists are tricky. humans are messy.”six months after reeves said that sag the union of which he is a member went on strike to make sure studios couldn’t find a way around him. (as if.) when the strike ended as with the wga resolution  could studios be trusted to self-regulate? would actors be able to loan out ai doubles of themselves for jobs that would have gone to human performers? many of those questions won’t be answered for a long time. perhaps the answers won’t come soon enough.
you might also like … is a senior editor at wired covering pop culture. she also serves as the publication's deputy bureau chief in new york. prior to joining wired she was a reporter for the associated press. watercutter was also a senior editor of longshot magazine and a contributor to pop-up magazine.... senior editortopicsthe creator economy is fragmented and chaotic. talent manager ursus magana can (almost) make sense of it with a frenetic formula for gaming the algorithms.brendan i. koernerspotify is the world’s biggest music streamer but rarely turns a profit and just cut 17 percent of its workforce. its business model looks increasingly precarious.amanda hooverjoe weisberg—the geopolitically entangled heavily therapized creator of the americans and the patient—is the trickiest character he’s written (so far).laura kipnisthe director manages to game the system and keep his soul while doing pretty much whatever he wants. right now that means trying to make his rebel moon space opera into a netflix mega-franchise.hemal jhaveriit was only about halfway done but the script david lynch wrote for the sequel to his 1984 adaptation of frank herbert's novel dune was still better than dune messiah.max evryfeeling lethargic and unmotivated after a holiday break from the office? you’re not alone. these tips can help.reece rogersfrom the wheel of time to reacher these are our picks for what you should be watching on the streamer.matt kamenwith offerings like rap sh!t and true detective night country max is a streaming paradise of “it’s not tv” television.jennifer m. wood
is a senior editor at wired covering pop culture. she also serves as the publication's deputy bureau chief in new york. prior to joining wired she was a reporter for the associated press. watercutter was also a senior editor of longshot magazine and a contributor to pop-up magazine.... senior editor
senior editor
topics
the creator economy is fragmented and chaotic. talent manager ursus magana can (almost) make sense of it with a frenetic formula for gaming the algorithms.brendan i. koernerspotify is the world’s biggest music streamer but rarely turns a profit and just cut 17 percent of its workforce. its business model looks increasingly precarious.amanda hooverjoe weisberg—the geopolitically entangled heavily therapized creator of the americans and the patient—is the trickiest character he’s written (so far).laura kipnisthe director manages to game the system and keep his soul while doing pretty much whatever he wants. right now that means trying to make his rebel moon space opera into a netflix mega-franchise.hemal jhaveriit was only about halfway done but the script david lynch wrote for the sequel to his 1984 adaptation of frank herbert's novel dune was still better than dune messiah.max evryfeeling lethargic and unmotivated after a holiday break from the office? you’re not alone. these tips can help.reece rogersfrom the wheel of time to reacher these are our picks for what you should be watching on the streamer.matt kamenwith offerings like rap sh!t and true detective night country max is a streaming paradise of “it’s not tv” television.jennifer m. wood
brendan i. koerner
spotify is the world’s biggest music streamer but rarely turns a profit and just cut 17 percent of its workforce. its business model looks increasingly precarious.amanda hoover
amanda hoover
joe weisberg—the geopolitically entangled heavily therapized creator of the americans and the patient—is the trickiest character he’s written (so far).laura kipnis
laura kipnis
the director manages to game the system and keep his soul while doing pretty much whatever he wants. right now that means trying to make his rebel moon space opera into a netflix mega-franchise.hemal jhaveri
hemal jhaveri
it was only about halfway done but the script david lynch wrote for the sequel to his 1984 adaptation of frank herbert's novel dune was still better than dune messiah.max evry
max evry
feeling lethargic and unmotivated after a holiday break from the office? you’re not alone. these tips can help.reece rogers
reece rogers
from the wheel of time to reacher these are our picks for what you should be watching on the streamer.matt kamen
matt kamen
with offerings like rap sh!t and true detective night country max is a streaming paradise of “it’s not tv” television.jennifer m. wood
jennifer m. wood
members of the wga were just a small part of the resistance. there were others. the screen actors guild—american federation of television and radio artists or sag-aftra soon joined them on the picket lines together forming a formidable uprising against the perceived threat of ai.
what each union was seeking was different.  to make sure ai couldn’t be trained on their work or manipulate it without their say-so;  guardrails on how the technology could be used to recreate their performances. both parties ended up setting a tone for how labor movements in the future could push back against encroaching automation.
“it is interesting that the hollywood strikes became the highest-profile example of workers resisting ai in 2023” says  author of this year’s  a book about .
at the same time he adds the unions’ confrontations with studios came at a time when the boom in ai technology was causing a lot of folks to be critical of silicon valley and new tools primed to take their jobs. originally the wga’s ai stipulations  they’d be hotly contested demands—then they became a central issue. “workers and unions have been fighting automation and certain uses of ai in the workplace for years of course but the writers guild were among the first to do so after the rise of  and ” merchant says. ultimately it was the first big face-off between humans and ai he adds and “the humans won.”
their timing couldn’t have been better. throughout 2023 many trades and professions from painters to coders and beyond found themselves vulnerable to being replaced by machine learning. ibm’s ceo  that some 7800 jobs at the company could be done by bots in the next five years. a goldman sachs report from late march  nearly 300000 jobs globally could be affected by automation.   (gulp) —everyone it seemed spent at least part of 2023 wondering if robots were coming for their jobs.
sheffi wrote the piece in september when both sag and wga were deep into their strikes. at the time he noted that other industries should “take to heart” what was happening in hollywood. “resolving these issues [between the actors and writers and the studios] will take time but at least in this case the parties have started the process before ai has become an industry mainstay” he wrote. “but other unions don’t seem to be facing up to the ways technological advances will change jobs.”
as the advance of ai marched on throughout 2023 it became clear that unions were only part of the resistance. authors worried that large language models had been trained using their books  against openai meta microsoft and others. so did visual artists against stable diffusion midjourney deviantart and more. none of those suits has reached any kind of conclusion and some argue  claims aren’t the way to stop the bots from absorbing creative work but the suits did turn the courts into yet another battlefield in addition to picket lines on which humans pushed back against ai incursion.
by the end of 2023 governments entered the fray. in early november us president joe biden  attempting among other things to curtail ai’s impact on human work and provide “ for workers facing labor disruptions including from ai.” unions  praised the move which came as world leaders were heading to the uk for the ai safety summit where as my colleague  they sought to contain the threats of machine learning while also harnessing its power.
that has always been the tricky part. from weavers to writers lots of people use machines to improve their work. automation helps! as ai boosters will tell you the technology can cultivate new forms of creativity. people can  alongside ai create new styles of visual art build . some hollywood writers use the tools for . fear comes in when brainstorming evolves into a studio head asking chatgpt to write a new movie about a cat and a cop who are best friends. no scribes needed.
funny thing about that microsoft actually  to openai staffers during that brief period when altman was voted off the island. so did . openai employees all but told salesforce ceo marc benioff to  but the sentiment stood as a reminder that while ai is poised to take many jobs it also creates jobs in ai. the “learn to code” crowd has all new ammo. even biden’s executive order was clear about the fact that the us government wanted to attract the best and brightest in the field.
but that’s job creation not job displacement. new technologies create jobs all the time but with ai some of those jobs . what’s more ai can also ask you to train it to do your job before picking up your tools. going forward the likelihood that ai will displace many entry-level jobs while creating a few highly skilled gigs seems high. the biggest questions in ai right now nearly all revolve around what these machines are learning from people whether it’s human skill or human bias.
journalism requires a modicum of skill and an ability to tamp down bias—and ai has proven . going into 2023 i thought perhaps i would be old and retired before ai came for my gig. then keanu reeves (of all people)  and that ai could replace me before my next birthday. “the people who are paying you for your art would rather not pay you” he said. “they’re actively seeking a way around you because artists are tricky. humans are messy.”
six months after reeves said that sag the union of which he is a member went on strike to make sure studios couldn’t find a way around him. (as if.) when the strike ended as with the wga resolution  could studios be trusted to self-regulate? would actors be able to loan out ai doubles of themselves for jobs that would have gone to human performers? many of those questions won’t be answered for a long time. perhaps the answers won’t come soon enough.