2023's wildest markets stories big tech stock surge bitcoin's rebound
jump to
from the stunning surge of the 'magnificent 7' stocks to bitcoin's shock rebound here are 8 of 2023's wildest markets stories
                                  2023-12-28t110826z
george glover
facebook
twitter
copy link
new look
                                    sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets tech and business — delivered daily. 
thanks for signing up!
                              access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go.
it's been another rollercoaster of a year for markets.stocks enjoyed a spectacular rebound after a dismal 2022 bonds' three-year slump turned into a  and the us economy defied forecasters' gloomy predictions by dodging a recession.meanwhile chatgpt became a household name seven big tech companies racked up historic stock-market returns and  staged a mini-comeback with approval of a spot etf looking increasingly likely.here are eight markets stories that defined 2023.
1. the rise of ai
chatgpt had racked up over  by january 2023 – and the intelligent language tool's rapid rise in popularity quickly sparked an ai goldrush on wall street.stocks like  and  have emerged as the early winners from the year's hottest investing theme. jensen huang's chipmaker surged to a  for the first time ever thanks to its dominance of the market for graphics processing units (gpus) which are used to power large language models like openai's bot.but the rise of ai has also led to worries about . gary gensler who heads up the us's top financial watchdog the securities and exchange commission has repeatedly warned about a potential cross-asset crash and doubled down earlier this month when he said ai could eventually drive markets "".
2. svb's bankruptcy
little-known  unexpectedly became the biggest story in markets in mid-march after it disclosed billion-dollar losses on its bond portfolio.news of the california lender's fixed-income firesale led to its stock price crashing nearly 90% in two days before it halted trading of its shares while big-name clients like peter thiel's founders fund quickly pulled their money from the bank.that sparked huge turmoil in the us's regional banking sector with san francisco's  collapsing weeks later. by the end of 2023 the  – which tracks the price of the us's leading publicly-traded financial institutions – had plunged nearly 20% from the level it had traded at before svb failed.
3. credit suisse's collapse
those weren't the only banks to come a cropper in 2023. on the other side of the atlantic  amid march's svb-fueled turmoil with its stock price plunging 70% in the space of just five days.switzerland's government eventually forced through a  that saw the 167-year-old lender taken over by its longtime rival  in one of the biggest falls from grace the banking world has seen since the 2008 financial crisis.
4. the bond-market meltdown
the same asset class that led to svb's demise hit headlines again in october when bonds' post-pandemic skid spiraled into one of the worst collapses in market history. in a meltdown that   shed 46% of their value between march 2020 and the end of september with  for the first time in 16 years.investors' belief that the federal reserve might carry on hiking interest rates well into 2024 in a bid to kill off inflation sparked the sell-off. in the months since comforting  has given bonds some much-needed relief with 10-year yields retreating around 75 basis points from their mid-october peak.
5. bitcoin's resurgence
the cryptocurrency world found itself at rock-bottom at the end of 2022 with  sam bankman-fried's ftx empire spectacularly collapsing and .twelve months later the large-cap token has enjoyed a stunning return to form. its price is up an eye-popping 152% year-to-date making it one of 2023's best-performing assets.fueling bitcoin's rally has been ongoing speculation about the sec approving of a  that would allow big institutional investors to buy cryptocurrencies for the first time. the token's highest-profile supporter has been the world's largest asset manager blackrock with  saying in july that regulators approving a bitcoin-tracking fund would help to "democratize crypto".
6. russia's economic resilience
the war in ukraine has carried on dominating headlines this year but russia's economy has held firm as the battle in eastern europe rages on.in november kremlin spokesperson dmitry peskov shrugged off the west's oil and gas embargoes and financial restrictions saying russia had "adapted" and was no longer .for now he's right that the russian economy is holding steady with the imf recently  to over 2% – although a  and  remain causes of concern for policymakers in moscow.
7. no us recession
in one of 2023's most pleasantly surprising twists the economic slump that much of wall street had predicted didn't come to pass.most of the country's top banks were united in forecasting there'd be a recession before year-end but a third-quarter gdp surge has helped the economy to avoid that fate. resilient consumer spending – which has had a helping hand from the smash-hit  tours – has helped to prop up growth.meanwhile  is still hovering below 4% and  has rapidly cooled in a sign  is still within reach as the central bank prepares to call time on its rate-hiking campaign.
8. stellar gains for the "magnificent seven"
last but not least it's been a banner year for seven big tech stocks –  microsoft google owner   nvidia facebook parent  and elon musk's ev maker tesla.the so-called  have racked up trillions of dollars worth of gains in 2023 powered higher by both the rise of ai and investors seeking out safer investments. .having a narrow group of companies dominate the  might not be good news for  – but the benchmark index will likely have to rely on the blue-chip group once again next year if its to meet .
check out 
                          read next
                      more...
stocks enjoyed a spectacular rebound after a dismal 2022 bonds' three-year slump turned into a  and the us economy defied forecasters' gloomy predictions by dodging a recession.
meanwhile chatgpt became a household name seven big tech companies racked up historic stock-market returns and  staged a mini-comeback with approval of a spot etf looking increasingly likely.
here are eight markets stories that defined 2023.
stocks like  and  have emerged as the early winners from the year's hottest investing theme. jensen huang's chipmaker surged to a  for the first time ever thanks to its dominance of the market for graphics processing units (gpus) which are used to power large language models like openai's bot.
but the rise of ai has also led to worries about . gary gensler who heads up the us's top financial watchdog the securities and exchange commission has repeatedly warned about a potential cross-asset crash and doubled down earlier this month when he said ai could eventually drive markets "".
news of the california lender's fixed-income firesale led to its stock price crashing nearly 90% in two days before it halted trading of its shares while big-name clients like peter thiel's founders fund quickly pulled their money from the bank.
that sparked huge turmoil in the us's regional banking sector with san francisco's  collapsing weeks later. by the end of 2023 the  – which tracks the price of the us's leading publicly-traded financial institutions – had plunged nearly 20% from the level it had traded at before svb failed.
switzerland's government eventually forced through a  that saw the 167-year-old lender taken over by its longtime rival  in one of the biggest falls from grace the banking world has seen since the 2008 financial crisis.
investors' belief that the federal reserve might carry on hiking interest rates well into 2024 in a bid to kill off inflation sparked the sell-off. in the months since comforting  has given bonds some much-needed relief with 10-year yields retreating around 75 basis points from their mid-october peak.
twelve months later the large-cap token has enjoyed a stunning return to form. its price is up an eye-popping 152% year-to-date making it one of 2023's best-performing assets.
fueling bitcoin's rally has been ongoing speculation about the sec approving of a  that would allow big institutional investors to buy cryptocurrencies for the first time. the token's highest-profile supporter has been the world's largest asset manager blackrock with  saying in july that regulators approving a bitcoin-tracking fund would help to "democratize crypto".
in november kremlin spokesperson dmitry peskov shrugged off the west's oil and gas embargoes and financial restrictions saying russia had "adapted" and was no longer .
for now he's right that the russian economy is holding steady with the imf recently  to over 2% – although a  and  remain causes of concern for policymakers in moscow.
most of the country's top banks were united in forecasting there'd be a recession before year-end but a third-quarter gdp surge has helped the economy to avoid that fate. resilient consumer spending – which has had a helping hand from the smash-hit  tours – has helped to prop up growth.
meanwhile  is still hovering below 4% and  has rapidly cooled in a sign  is still within reach as the central bank prepares to call time on its rate-hiking campaign.
the so-called  have racked up trillions of dollars worth of gains in 2023 powered higher by both the rise of ai and investors seeking out safer investments. .
having a narrow group of companies dominate the  might not be good news for  – but the benchmark index will likely have to rely on the blue-chip group once again next year if its to meet .