sorry elon chinese company overtakes tesla as  electric carmaker
the future is herechina's byd now has the top spot in the electric car business as tesla's bad year gets worse.by.2023 was a bad year for elon musk. even before  the billionaire’s  took musk from media darling to a near-laughing stock. his bid to take spacex pubic  is  after its satellite internet business starlink brought in . now it seems tesla is falling behind. according to  a chinese automaker called byd co. is about to pass tesla as the world’s  manufacturer of electric cars.watchdid elon musk regret buying twitter?  walter isaacson interview
byd isn’t that well known on the world stage but that may change in the near future. in recent years china moved in on japan as a new rival for the world’s leading consumer car exporter and byd is one of the fastest-growing companies in china’s booming industry. current projections say byd will overtake tesla’s top spot for electric car sales within the next few months. it marks a turning point in a decade-long competition between billionaires. byd ceo wang chuanfu set his sights on tesla in the early days of his company’s foray into the electric car business bolstered by major investment from warren buffet’s firm berkshire hathaway. musk ridiculed the chinese company in a recently surfaced tv interview but today it’s clear that byd is a legitimate threat to his empire. tesla is already reeling from a stretch of difficult road. in just the past few months investors called for musk’s resignation from tesla after he shared  the california department of motor vehicles  over the claim that its cars are fully autonomous (they’re not) and the ceo seemed to  on a disastrous earnings call during which he said “.” musk’s antics even started to  who based their entire internet presence on supporting him. it won’t be easy for byd to expand its domestic success with electric car sales overseas particularly in the us where its vehicles are essentially nonexistent. but if the company comes anywhere close musk is in serious trouble.
china's byd now has the top spot in the electric car business as tesla's bad year gets worse.
by.2023 was a bad year for elon musk. even before  the billionaire’s  took musk from media darling to a near-laughing stock. his bid to take spacex pubic  is  after its satellite internet business starlink brought in . now it seems tesla is falling behind. according to  a chinese automaker called byd co. is about to pass tesla as the world’s  manufacturer of electric cars.watchdid elon musk regret buying twitter?  walter isaacson interview
2023 was a bad year for elon musk. even before  the billionaire’s  took musk from media darling to a near-laughing stock. his bid to take spacex pubic  is  after its satellite internet business starlink brought in . now it seems tesla is falling behind. according to  a chinese automaker called byd co. is about to pass tesla as the world’s  manufacturer of electric cars.watchdid elon musk regret buying twitter?  walter isaacson interview
watchdid elon musk regret buying twitter?  walter isaacson interview
did elon musk regret buying twitter?  walter isaacson interview
share
subtitles
it marks a turning point in a decade-long competition between billionaires. byd ceo wang chuanfu set his sights on tesla in the early days of his company’s foray into the electric car business bolstered by major investment from warren buffet’s firm berkshire hathaway. musk ridiculed the chinese company in a recently surfaced tv interview but today it’s clear that byd is a legitimate threat to his empire.
tesla is already reeling from a stretch of difficult road. in just the past few months investors called for musk’s resignation from tesla after he shared  the california department of motor vehicles  over the claim that its cars are fully autonomous (they’re not) and the ceo seemed to  on a disastrous earnings call during which he said “.” musk’s antics even started to  who based their entire internet presence on supporting him.
it won’t be easy for byd to expand its domestic success with electric car sales overseas particularly in the us where its vehicles are essentially nonexistent. but if the company comes anywhere close musk is in serious trouble.