india's flooded farmlands mask a water crisis deep underground - slashdot
want to read slashdot from your mobile device? point it at  and keep reading!
or do you develop on github? you can keep using github but automatically  quickly and easily with  so your projects have a backup location and get your project in front of sourceforge's nearly 30 million monthly users. it takes less than a minute. get new users downloading your project releases today!
172531179
story
				india consumes more groundwater. that's testing india's . from a report the south asian nation is already the world's largest guzzler of groundwater. cheap power has encouraged routine overreliance on finite riches. india overwhelmingly grows some of the thirstiest crops rice wheat and sugar cane. over the last half century farm productivity has leapt forward but so too has water usage -- up 500% over that period according to the world bank. erratic monsoons and brutal heat waves are only making the problem more acute. farmers are digging deeper wells because existing ones are no longer refilling. some regions may run out of groundwater entirely -- punjab a major wheat producer could go dry within the next 15 or so years according to a former state official. states in southern india are battling over water rights in areas where rampant urban development has drained thousands of lakes. 
the government is not blind to the crisis. but with a national election on the horizon next year there's little to gain in pushing actively for change among farmers one of the most important voting blocs in the country. any long-term solution will involve tinkering with farm subsidies or the minimum price set for water-intensive crops. prime minister narendra modi's ruling party is all too aware that farmers from india's grain-growing northern regions dominated months of protests against proposed agrarian reforms from late 2020. modi was forced to withdraw the proposals. for now it's clear the water math does not add up. 
modi has promised piped water to all indian households by 2024. yet nearly half of india's 1.4 billion residents already face high-to-extreme water stress and the world's most populous nation is expected to add more than 200 million more people by 2050. agriculture meanwhile accounts for 90% of water use helping to explain why indian officials say the clearest strategy for preserving supplies is modernizing the industry. the government has tried to convince farmers to adopt different irrigation technologies return to traditional rain harvesting and plant less thirsty crops like millets pulses and oilseeds. nothing has yet made a substantial difference in a country where subsidies supporting wheat and rice persist and farming is dominated by smallholders.
this discussion has been archived.
			no new comments can be posted.
comments filter
top of the   .
slashdot top deals
working...
never invest your money in anything that eats or needs repainting.
		-- billy rose