the most dangerous people on the internet in 2023  wired
in 2023 the world has felt like it was balanced on a precipice. a united states presidential election looms with a resurgent candidate that threatens to bring with him all the chaos of 2016 and 2020. artificial intelligence developed so quickly that it seemed to have suddenly sprung into being heralding vast societal promise and disruption just around the bend of its exponential curve. and the world's richest man continued to use his power to push for a more reckless tech world from free-for-all social media and oversold assisted-driving features to ai with a “rebellious streak.”in the midst of that uncertainty a new war between  added more atrocities alongside the slow-burning horrors of russia's invasion of ukraine. these wars have echoed across the internet in propaganda hate speech and cyberattacks that triggered widespread real-world effects. chinese state-sponsored hackers meanwhile sowed the seeds for a future cyberwar and ransomware gangs resurged. it was a banner year for chaos present and impending and all reflected in the digital mirror.each year wired assembles a list of the most dangerous people groups and organizations on the internet—both those who intentionally endanger innocent people and those whose actions regardless of their intent destabilize the world as we know it in myriad ways. here in no particular order are our picks for 2023.elon muska year ago it might have still been fair to regard elon musk as a brilliant technologist with occasional destructive trollish tendencies. in 2023 those tendencies seemed to take over his public identity. twitter now renamed x thanks to musk's branding whims this year invited back conspiracy theorists like alex jones and even amplified one account's antisemitic statements. when advertisers complained musk managed in a single conversation to both apologize for that blunder and tell them “.”before that in july musk had said that his social media platform's ad revenue had —all of which calls into question whether this once-central platform for online conversation will survive musk's reign and in what form.in the midst of that meltdown musk's new startup xai released grok an ai chatbot musk celebrated for having . musk faces calls for an sec investigation for his comments about how  carried out by his brain implant startup neuralink. and in mid-december  of its vehicles sold in the us to fix an autopilot feature. the national highway traffic safety administration found that tesla's safety measures for assuring that drivers paying attention—which many no doubt were not perhaps thanks in part to  of the assisted-driving feature—were inadequate.five years ago wired put musk's face on the cover with a story that described his . these days it's becoming clearer which side of that split personality dominates.cl0pin 2023 ransomware . according to cryptocurrency firm chainalysis it appears to be on track to be the second-worst year on record in terms of total extortion payments collected by the ransomware industry's coercive gangs of hackers. but perhaps no group did more damage this year than the people behind the cl0p malware.in may the cl0p gang began exploiting a zero-day vulnerability in the moveit file transfer software and used it to carry out a  across more than 2000 organizations according to ransomware-focused security firm emsisoft. a single victim medical firm maximus lost control of the data of at least 8 million people in the breach. the hackers stole data from the state government of maine on another 1.3 million. in total at least 62 million people were affected and cl0p's hackers remain at large.alphvif cl0p were the most ruthless ransomware hackers of the year alphv also known as black cat were certainly in close contention. the group which has  gained a new level of notoriety in september when it targeted mgm resorts international shutting down computer systems across the hotel and casino chain and ultimately doing $100 million in damage by mgm's estimate. more broadly the fbi says that alphv has compromised over a thousand organizations and extracted more than $300 million in ransoms.in mid-december the fbi announced that it had  where alphv publishes its victims’ stolen data. hours later the site reappeared and alphv defiantly announced it had “unseized” it and would no longer abide by a rule not to target critical infrastructure systems. the site was soon taken down again. but given that no members of the group have been arrested or even indicted in absentia its chaos will likely continue.hamasno event of 2023 has shaken geopolitics as suddenly and shockingly as hamas' atrocities against civilians in southern israel on october 7. the attacks in which hamas militants killed 1200 people and took hundreds of hostages immediately triggered a war that threatens to destabilize the region. it has also shaken the tech world where it has raised questions about the digital technologies that have enabled hamas from the millions of dollars the group raised via cryptocurrency to its  where it distributes propaganda and videos of its violence. when isis came to prominence in 2014 it forced every technology platform in the world to question whether and how it enabled extremist violence. now a decade later a new round of horrific bloodletting shows how that reckoning continues.sandwormdespite sanctions indictments and even a $10 million bounty russia's team of hyper-aggressive military intelligence hackers known as sandworm are still out there—and still active. as russia's invasion of ukraine grinds toward its third brutal year in fact they appear to have turned their focus to that conflict.this year sandworm was revealed to have carried out a  this time in the midst of a russian air strike hitting the same city. it later penetrated ukrainian military communications in a more traditional espionage-focused effort to gain an advantage during ukraine's counteroffensive. and evidence points to sandworm's responsibility for a  taking out internet and mobile communications for millions amid another series of strikes. the group in other words continues to earn its reputation as the kremlin's most dangerous hackers.volt typhoonfor years the cybersecurity community has asked itself who might be the “sandworm of china.” this year provided perhaps the closest thing yet to an answer. the hacker group dubbed volt typhoon by microsoft was  to have planted malware in power grid networks across the continental us and guam in some cases with an apparent eye toward . more recently the washington post revealed that volt typhoon's targets have  too from an oil and gas pipeline to a major west coast port and a hawaiian water utility.while the intentions of the group and its overseers are still far from clear cybersecurity and geopolitical analysts increasingly see it as laying the groundwork to disrupt key us systems in the event of a crisis—such as .donald trumplast year for the first time since 2015 donald trump was . hope you enjoyed the break!less than 11 months out from the 2024 us presidential election trump leads republican primary polls by a wide margin. he has used his rekindled relevance to launch disturbing attacks on his perceived enemies largely from his own right-wing-dominated truth social platform.in posts there he has vowed if elected to launch federal investigations into media companies and journalists that criticize him and to prosecute president biden. he has ranted about the wife of one of the judges overseeing a civil trial against him for fraud charges and blamed his political opponents for the criminal charges he faces for allegations of election interference and improper handling of classified information. and he has continued to tout his discredited claims of winning the 2020 election which the us department of justice says fueled the january 6 2021 storming of the us capitol.more to the point all of this may be finding a receptive audience among trump's base. that means it could help usher in another presidency of the kind that pulled the us out of the paris agreement on climate change instituted a “muslim ban” and family separation border policy dismantled pandemic protections and denied the seriousness of covid-19 as hundreds of thousands of american died. here we go again.israel defense forcessince october 7 israel's military has responded to hamas' invasion of israel with attacks that have killed at least 20000 palestinians—largely women and children—displaced nearly 2 million of gaza's inhabitants and cut off the flow of food water and medicine to the region. it has also at times  to leave it in a near-total information blackout even as it claims it's using those communication tools to warn civilians about its impending attacks on their homes.in the midst of all of this israel's propaganda machine has been working to shape the public narrative about its military operations from promoted tweets by the idf in support of its campaign in gaza appearing on x to israeli accounts going so far as to claim that palestinian deaths have been staged with dolls made to look like dead infants. all of that has played a role in silencing global criticism of the idf's actions even as the death toll from its war against hamas stretches an order of magnitude beyond that of hamas' october 7 atrocities.sam altmanrunning the company that's arguably  is enough to qualify anyone as one of the most dangerous people to exist—not just this year but in human history. setting that small point aside altman might seem at a glance like the most benign personality imaginable to serve as openai's ceo. he has chosen surprisingly to take no equity stake in the company. he argues for more government regulation of ai in interviews and congressional hearings. he genuinely seems to believe in a flourishing future for humanity in a post-singularity world.but november's brief and dramatic power struggle within openai  and the newly consolidated circle of power that surrounds him. altman had argued in the past that the strange structure of openai with a nonprofit overseeing a for-profit company offered a form of self-restraint that would keep the company's technological ambitions on a safety-conscious leash. but when altman was fired by openai's board and almost immediately —including two ethics-focused effective altruists—the leash snapped. openai in this new era is now firmly under the control of one man and his executive team as well as microsoft his $2.8 trillion corporate ally and investor.so let's hope his plan for the future of this world-flipping technology is a good one. either way it will be very hard to stop him.predatory sparrowthe group that calls itself predatory sparrow a translation from the persian gonjeshke darande is hardly a household name in the cybersecurity world. but it raised alarms in 2022 when it carried out a cyberattack on several iranian companies including a steel mill where it claimed—and —that it had somehow started a fire in the facility. the group which styles itself as hacktivists but which the iranian government has claimed is linked to the israeli state also leaked a collection of documents stolen in those breaches that the hackers said revealed the companies’ connections to the iran revolutionary guard corps.now in the wake of the israel-hamas war and as houthi rebels fire iranian missiles at israel predatory sparrow has carried out a second major cyberattack against iran this time reportedly . this will be one to watch.you might also like …topicsplus a major ransomware crackdown the arrest of ukraine’s cybersecurity chief and a hack-for-hire entrepreneur charged with attempted murder.lily hay newmannetflix spotify twitter paypal slack. all down for millions of people. how a group of teen friends plunged into an underworld of cybercrime and broke the internet—then went to work for the fbi.andy greenbergstefan thomas lost the password to an encrypted usb drive holding 7002 bitcoins. one team of hackers believes they can unlock it—if they can get thomas to let them.andy greenbergadversarial algorithms can systematically probe large language models like openai’s gpt-4 for weaknesses that can make them misbehave.will knightreleased earlier this month openai’s gpts let anyone create custom chatbots. but some of the data they’re built on is easily exposed.matt burgess23andme has provided more information about the scope and scale of its recent breach but with these details come more unanswered questions.lily hay newmanqr codes can be convenient—but they can also be exploited by malicious actors. here’s how to protect yourself.david nieldkeep your logins locked down with our favorite password management apps for pc mac android iphone and web browsers.scott gilbertson
elon musk
cl0p
alphv
hamas
sandworm
volt typhoon
donald trump
in posts there he has vowed if elected to launch federal investigations into media companies and journalists that criticize him and to prosecute president biden. he has ranted about the wife of one of the judges overseeing a civil trial against him for fraud charges and blamed his political opponents for the criminal charges he faces for allegations of election interference and improper handling of classified information. and he has continued to tout his discredited claims of winning the 2020 election which the us department of justice says fueled the january 6 2021 storming of the us capitol.more to the point all of this may be finding a receptive audience among trump's base. that means it could help usher in another presidency of the kind that pulled the us out of the paris agreement on climate change instituted a “muslim ban” and family separation border policy dismantled pandemic protections and denied the seriousness of covid-19 as hundreds of thousands of american died. here we go again.israel defense forcessince october 7 israel's military has responded to hamas' invasion of israel with attacks that have killed at least 20000 palestinians—largely women and children—displaced nearly 2 million of gaza's inhabitants and cut off the flow of food water and medicine to the region. it has also at times  to leave it in a near-total information blackout even as it claims it's using those communication tools to warn civilians about its impending attacks on their homes.in the midst of all of this israel's propaganda machine has been working to shape the public narrative about its military operations from promoted tweets by the idf in support of its campaign in gaza appearing on x to israeli accounts going so far as to claim that palestinian deaths have been staged with dolls made to look like dead infants. all of that has played a role in silencing global criticism of the idf's actions even as the death toll from its war against hamas stretches an order of magnitude beyond that of hamas' october 7 atrocities.sam altmanrunning the company that's arguably  is enough to qualify anyone as one of the most dangerous people to exist—not just this year but in human history. setting that small point aside altman might seem at a glance like the most benign personality imaginable to serve as openai's ceo. he has chosen surprisingly to take no equity stake in the company. he argues for more government regulation of ai in interviews and congressional hearings. he genuinely seems to believe in a flourishing future for humanity in a post-singularity world.but november's brief and dramatic power struggle within openai  and the newly consolidated circle of power that surrounds him. altman had argued in the past that the strange structure of openai with a nonprofit overseeing a for-profit company offered a form of self-restraint that would keep the company's technological ambitions on a safety-conscious leash. but when altman was fired by openai's board and almost immediately —including two ethics-focused effective altruists—the leash snapped. openai in this new era is now firmly under the control of one man and his executive team as well as microsoft his $2.8 trillion corporate ally and investor.so let's hope his plan for the future of this world-flipping technology is a good one. either way it will be very hard to stop him.predatory sparrowthe group that calls itself predatory sparrow a translation from the persian gonjeshke darande is hardly a household name in the cybersecurity world. but it raised alarms in 2022 when it carried out a cyberattack on several iranian companies including a steel mill where it claimed—and —that it had somehow started a fire in the facility. the group which styles itself as hacktivists but which the iranian government has claimed is linked to the israeli state also leaked a collection of documents stolen in those breaches that the hackers said revealed the companies’ connections to the iran revolutionary guard corps.now in the wake of the israel-hamas war and as houthi rebels fire iranian missiles at israel predatory sparrow has carried out a second major cyberattack against iran this time reportedly . this will be one to watch.
israel defense forces
sam altman
predatory sparrow
you might also like …topicsplus a major ransomware crackdown the arrest of ukraine’s cybersecurity chief and a hack-for-hire entrepreneur charged with attempted murder.lily hay newmannetflix spotify twitter paypal slack. all down for millions of people. how a group of teen friends plunged into an underworld of cybercrime and broke the internet—then went to work for the fbi.andy greenbergstefan thomas lost the password to an encrypted usb drive holding 7002 bitcoins. one team of hackers believes they can unlock it—if they can get thomas to let them.andy greenbergadversarial algorithms can systematically probe large language models like openai’s gpt-4 for weaknesses that can make them misbehave.will knightreleased earlier this month openai’s gpts let anyone create custom chatbots. but some of the data they’re built on is easily exposed.matt burgess23andme has provided more information about the scope and scale of its recent breach but with these details come more unanswered questions.lily hay newmanqr codes can be convenient—but they can also be exploited by malicious actors. here’s how to protect yourself.david nieldkeep your logins locked down with our favorite password management apps for pc mac android iphone and web browsers.scott gilbertson
topics
plus a major ransomware crackdown the arrest of ukraine’s cybersecurity chief and a hack-for-hire entrepreneur charged with attempted murder.lily hay newmannetflix spotify twitter paypal slack. all down for millions of people. how a group of teen friends plunged into an underworld of cybercrime and broke the internet—then went to work for the fbi.andy greenbergstefan thomas lost the password to an encrypted usb drive holding 7002 bitcoins. one team of hackers believes they can unlock it—if they can get thomas to let them.andy greenbergadversarial algorithms can systematically probe large language models like openai’s gpt-4 for weaknesses that can make them misbehave.will knightreleased earlier this month openai’s gpts let anyone create custom chatbots. but some of the data they’re built on is easily exposed.matt burgess23andme has provided more information about the scope and scale of its recent breach but with these details come more unanswered questions.lily hay newmanqr codes can be convenient—but they can also be exploited by malicious actors. here’s how to protect yourself.david nieldkeep your logins locked down with our favorite password management apps for pc mac android iphone and web browsers.scott gilbertson
lily hay newman
netflix spotify twitter paypal slack. all down for millions of people. how a group of teen friends plunged into an underworld of cybercrime and broke the internet—then went to work for the fbi.andy greenberg
andy greenberg
stefan thomas lost the password to an encrypted usb drive holding 7002 bitcoins. one team of hackers believes they can unlock it—if they can get thomas to let them.andy greenberg
adversarial algorithms can systematically probe large language models like openai’s gpt-4 for weaknesses that can make them misbehave.will knight
will knight
released earlier this month openai’s gpts let anyone create custom chatbots. but some of the data they’re built on is easily exposed.matt burgess
matt burgess
23andme has provided more information about the scope and scale of its recent breach but with these details come more unanswered questions.lily hay newman
qr codes can be convenient—but they can also be exploited by malicious actors. here’s how to protect yourself.david nield
david nield
keep your logins locked down with our favorite password management apps for pc mac android iphone and web browsers.scott gilbertson
scott gilbertson
in the midst of that uncertainty a new war between  added more atrocities alongside the slow-burning horrors of russia's invasion of ukraine. these wars have echoed across the internet in propaganda hate speech and cyberattacks that triggered widespread real-world effects. chinese state-sponsored hackers meanwhile sowed the seeds for a future cyberwar and ransomware gangs resurged. it was a banner year for chaos present and impending and all reflected in the digital mirror.
each year wired assembles a list of the most dangerous people groups and organizations on the internet—both those who intentionally endanger innocent people and those whose actions regardless of their intent destabilize the world as we know it in myriad ways. here in no particular order are our picks for 2023.
a year ago it might have still been fair to regard elon musk as a brilliant technologist with occasional destructive trollish tendencies. in 2023 those tendencies seemed to take over his public identity. twitter now renamed x thanks to musk's branding whims this year invited back conspiracy theorists like alex jones and even amplified one account's antisemitic statements. when advertisers complained musk managed in a single conversation to both apologize for that blunder and tell them “.”
before that in july musk had said that his social media platform's ad revenue had —all of which calls into question whether this once-central platform for online conversation will survive musk's reign and in what form.
in the midst of that meltdown musk's new startup xai released grok an ai chatbot musk celebrated for having . musk faces calls for an sec investigation for his comments about how  carried out by his brain implant startup neuralink. and in mid-december  of its vehicles sold in the us to fix an autopilot feature. the national highway traffic safety administration found that tesla's safety measures for assuring that drivers paying attention—which many no doubt were not perhaps thanks in part to  of the assisted-driving feature—were inadequate.
five years ago wired put musk's face on the cover with a story that described his . these days it's becoming clearer which side of that split personality dominates.
in 2023 ransomware . according to cryptocurrency firm chainalysis it appears to be on track to be the second-worst year on record in terms of total extortion payments collected by the ransomware industry's coercive gangs of hackers. but perhaps no group did more damage this year than the people behind the cl0p malware.
in may the cl0p gang began exploiting a zero-day vulnerability in the moveit file transfer software and used it to carry out a  across more than 2000 organizations according to ransomware-focused security firm emsisoft. a single victim medical firm maximus lost control of the data of at least 8 million people in the breach. the hackers stole data from the state government of maine on another 1.3 million. in total at least 62 million people were affected and cl0p's hackers remain at large.
if cl0p were the most ruthless ransomware hackers of the year alphv also known as black cat were certainly in close contention. the group which has  gained a new level of notoriety in september when it targeted mgm resorts international shutting down computer systems across the hotel and casino chain and ultimately doing $100 million in damage by mgm's estimate. more broadly the fbi says that alphv has compromised over a thousand organizations and extracted more than $300 million in ransoms.
in mid-december the fbi announced that it had  where alphv publishes its victims’ stolen data. hours later the site reappeared and alphv defiantly announced it had “unseized” it and would no longer abide by a rule not to target critical infrastructure systems. the site was soon taken down again. but given that no members of the group have been arrested or even indicted in absentia its chaos will likely continue.
no event of 2023 has shaken geopolitics as suddenly and shockingly as hamas' atrocities against civilians in southern israel on october 7. the attacks in which hamas militants killed 1200 people and took hundreds of hostages immediately triggered a war that threatens to destabilize the region. it has also shaken the tech world where it has raised questions about the digital technologies that have enabled hamas from the millions of dollars the group raised via cryptocurrency to its  where it distributes propaganda and videos of its violence. when isis came to prominence in 2014 it forced every technology platform in the world to question whether and how it enabled extremist violence. now a decade later a new round of horrific bloodletting shows how that reckoning continues.
despite sanctions indictments and even a $10 million bounty russia's team of hyper-aggressive military intelligence hackers known as sandworm are still out there—and still active. as russia's invasion of ukraine grinds toward its third brutal year in fact they appear to have turned their focus to that conflict.
this year sandworm was revealed to have carried out a  this time in the midst of a russian air strike hitting the same city. it later penetrated ukrainian military communications in a more traditional espionage-focused effort to gain an advantage during ukraine's counteroffensive. and evidence points to sandworm's responsibility for a  taking out internet and mobile communications for millions amid another series of strikes. the group in other words continues to earn its reputation as the kremlin's most dangerous hackers.
for years the cybersecurity community has asked itself who might be the “sandworm of china.” this year provided perhaps the closest thing yet to an answer. the hacker group dubbed volt typhoon by microsoft was  to have planted malware in power grid networks across the continental us and guam in some cases with an apparent eye toward . more recently the washington post revealed that volt typhoon's targets have  too from an oil and gas pipeline to a major west coast port and a hawaiian water utility.
while the intentions of the group and its overseers are still far from clear cybersecurity and geopolitical analysts increasingly see it as laying the groundwork to disrupt key us systems in the event of a crisis—such as .
last year for the first time since 2015 donald trump was . hope you enjoyed the break!
less than 11 months out from the 2024 us presidential election trump leads republican primary polls by a wide margin. he has used his rekindled relevance to launch disturbing attacks on his perceived enemies largely from his own right-wing-dominated truth social platform.
more to the point all of this may be finding a receptive audience among trump's base. that means it could help usher in another presidency of the kind that pulled the us out of the paris agreement on climate change instituted a “muslim ban” and family separation border policy dismantled pandemic protections and denied the seriousness of covid-19 as hundreds of thousands of american died. here we go again.
since october 7 israel's military has responded to hamas' invasion of israel with attacks that have killed at least 20000 palestinians—largely women and children—displaced nearly 2 million of gaza's inhabitants and cut off the flow of food water and medicine to the region. it has also at times  to leave it in a near-total information blackout even as it claims it's using those communication tools to warn civilians about its impending attacks on their homes.
in the midst of all of this israel's propaganda machine has been working to shape the public narrative about its military operations from promoted tweets by the idf in support of its campaign in gaza appearing on x to israeli accounts going so far as to claim that palestinian deaths have been staged with dolls made to look like dead infants. all of that has played a role in silencing global criticism of the idf's actions even as the death toll from its war against hamas stretches an order of magnitude beyond that of hamas' october 7 atrocities.
running the company that's arguably  is enough to qualify anyone as one of the most dangerous people to exist—not just this year but in human history. setting that small point aside altman might seem at a glance like the most benign personality imaginable to serve as openai's ceo. he has chosen surprisingly to take no equity stake in the company. he argues for more government regulation of ai in interviews and congressional hearings. he genuinely seems to believe in a flourishing future for humanity in a post-singularity world.
but november's brief and dramatic power struggle within openai  and the newly consolidated circle of power that surrounds him. altman had argued in the past that the strange structure of openai with a nonprofit overseeing a for-profit company offered a form of self-restraint that would keep the company's technological ambitions on a safety-conscious leash. but when altman was fired by openai's board and almost immediately —including two ethics-focused effective altruists—the leash snapped. openai in this new era is now firmly under the control of one man and his executive team as well as microsoft his $2.8 trillion corporate ally and investor.
so let's hope his plan for the future of this world-flipping technology is a good one. either way it will be very hard to stop him.
the group that calls itself predatory sparrow a translation from the persian gonjeshke darande is hardly a household name in the cybersecurity world. but it raised alarms in 2022 when it carried out a cyberattack on several iranian companies including a steel mill where it claimed—and —that it had somehow started a fire in the facility. the group which styles itself as hacktivists but which the iranian government has claimed is linked to the israeli state also leaked a collection of documents stolen in those breaches that the hackers said revealed the companies’ connections to the iran revolutionary guard corps.
now in the wake of the israel-hamas war and as houthi rebels fire iranian missiles at israel predatory sparrow has carried out a second major cyberattack against iran this time reportedly . this will be one to watch.